The London Metal Exchange (LME) has temporarily suspended nickel trading in the wake of an unprecedented spike in the commodity’s price. On 8 March 2022, the nickel prices soared to more than $100,000 per tonne, an increase by as much as 250% in two days on the LME. Due to the spike, some brokers were struggling to pay margin calls. The metal was trading at $80,000 when LME suspended the trading. LME said it would also cancel all nickel transactions that were carried out earlier in the day and deferred the physical delivery of contracts that matured. The price spike comes due to short covering by one of the top producers in the world, Russia, which has been hit by Western sanctions in the wake of its military incursion on Ukraine, reported Reuters. In a notice to members, LME said: “The current events are unprecedented. The suspension of the nickel market has created a number of issues for market participants, which need to be addressed.” Amid the Russia and Ukraine conflict, buyers have been scrambling for nickel, which is crucial in the manufacture of electric vehicle batteries and stainless steel. LME said: “The LME will actively plan for the reopening of the nickel market, and will announce the mechanics of this to the market as soon as possible.” As a result of the unprecedented nickel price surge, Chinese tycoon Xiang Guangda is facing mark-to-market losses worth billions of dollars, reported Bloomberg, citing people familiar with the matter. Through his company, Tsingshan Holding Group, Guangda held a large short position on the LME for months. Tsingshan Holding Group Co is considered the largest nickel and stainless steel producer in the world. This latest move represents the biggest crisis faced by LME in decades. In 1985, LME faced the tin crisis when it had to suspend the trading of the metal for four years due to the collapse of the International Tin Council. The council, which was supported by 22 governments, had collapsed following its failure to stabilise prices of the metal.   