Engineering group Sandvik Mining and Rock Solutions has received a contract to deliver AutoMine load and haul automation system for the El Teniente mine in Chile. The $27.4m (Skr250m) contract has been awarded by Chilean mining company Codelco, which owns and operates the underground copper mine. Sandvik Mining and Rock Solutions also secured a load and haul equipment order from Codelco. The contract has an initial value of $16.4m (Skr150m) and will run from 2022 through 2027. The two contracts take the total order value to $43.9m (Skr400m). Under the contract, the Swedish engineering group will supply Toro TH663i trucks and Sandvik LH514 loaders to Codelco during this year and 2023. Sandvik will also deliver the AutoMine Fleet system with scope to support up to 32 machines, and AutoMine production area hardware to supply future expansions. From 2023 through 2027, Codelco will receive additional trucks and loaders, which will be added to the AutoMine Fleet system. Sandvik Mining and Rock Solutions business area president Henrik Ager said: “I am pleased to see a continued strong interest for AutoMine solutions that contribute to improving safety, reliability and productivity in the mine and I look forward to the partnership with Codelco in this project.” The AutoMine Fleet system is a ‘highly advanced’ automation system designed to provide advanced traffic control capabilities for underground loaders and trucks that share the same automated production area. Sandvik’s AutoMine Underground automation system is designed for autonomous and tele-remote operation for a wide range of loaders and trucks. In February 2021, Sandvik Mining and Rock Solutions was selected to deliver its AutoMine Fleet system to Codelco. The system was ordered to automate a new fleet of Sandvik loaders at the Pacifico Superior and Pilar Norte GTI that form part of the El Teniente mine. Last year, Sandvik acquired DSI Underground, which offers ground support and reinforcement products for the mining and tunnelling sectors, in a $1.15bn deal. Dust Suppression Technologies for Mining Applications Self-Rescuer Devices, Oxygen Respirators, Chemical Gas Detectors, and Mine Rescue Devices Increasing Uptime and Reducing Costs for Mine and Quarry Operations Dust Suppression Technologies for Mining Applications Self-Rescuer Devices, Oxygen Respirators, Chemical Gas Detectors, and Mine Rescue Devices Increasing Uptime and Reducing Costs for Mine and Quarry Operations